# CS-340_Client_Server_Development
Course work for client server development
To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable it is important to use software development principles and practices. Some of the principles and practices that I used in my project were:
1. Modularization
2. Reusable Functions
3. Documentation
4. Error Handling
For this project, I used Jupyter Notebook to create the CRUD Python Module needed to manipulate the "animal" collection in the database "Austin Animal Center"(AAC). Using Jupyter or some other IDE and PyMongo to access and manipulate data is a much more practical approach than writing commands within a MongoDB shell directly. Creating the module is not only more practical for handling a large amount of data but a user friendly dashboard can be created for both future users and developers to access and manipulate data in a more efficient way. 
As a computer scientist, I start a project by gathering all of the project information and requirements that is accessible. I try and plan ahead and gather as much information to minimize the amount of times that I have to search for missing requirements or information throughout the development process of the project. Although it is inevitable to run into issues along the way, planning and understanding the project before beginning development as much as possible helps me remain in a constant state of flow throughout the developement of the project. This was the my first time using MongoDB and I haven't had much prior experience with Python, so there were alot of challenges that I've faced. Everytime that I encountered an issue or had to move onto the next stage of developement I would begin with some self affrimation and then utilize the resources that were provided and other online resources to aid in the development. For my next project with databases I will use all of the techniques and strategies used in this project and I would like to learn about more ways to filter or clean large data so that it is easier to understand and manipulate.
Computer Scientists do lots of things, and just about everything they create deals with some type of database. The type of data used and the dashboard created in this project simulates real data and a real dashboard. A project like this can work for any type of database and for any user that needs to access the database in an effienct way. This project example can allow a user to search for specific data in a large database with ease and communicate data effectively quickly and efficiently anywhere at anytime. The project could be used for many different types of buisnesses the only thing that would need to be changed is the data and updating methods to fit the desired needs of manipulating the data. 
